Some ideas to play with in the future, taking the best ideas
from each language.

(Note that these aren't the inventors of these ideas, just
what my limited understanding leads me to think are the
most interesting parts of these languages.)

Haskell
-------

 - Compound types with pattern matching. In particular Maybe/Either
   for unexceptional error reporting, with a way to unpack them.
   - Some sort of case statement seems straightforward to unpack,
     but Python doesn't really have a pattern matching analogue. Maybe
     treat it like a tuple unpacking function?

     switch foo:
         case a = Just:
             print(a)
         case Nothing:
             print("Oh no error!")

   - I'm not sure if the type checker forcing coverage of the
     patterns is desirable. For something like the above it
     would be fine, but there may be other cases where it
     would be onerous. Would a "else:   pass" be so bad?

   - Defining such a type seems tricky, because they
     are basically:

     Maybe = new Type<A>:
          def Just(a: A):
              self.a = a

          def Nothing():
              pass

     We could have some sort of @constructor decorator to
     promote the fuctions to the top-level to avoid

         return Maybe.Just(foo)

     everywhere.

     It's not clear how the pattern matching works against this.

     It might be better to offer some sort of metaclass/function
     that can implement simple union types in a nice way, at
     the expense of some flexibility.

  - Typeclasses. They are great. Something like Rust traits would
    seem to map well to our syntax.

    new Type:
       new Trait(File):
          def readline():
              ...

    The type checker has to check that you implement all of the trait in your
    block.

    You can then call the method from a particular trait with

       f.File:readline()

    and

       f.readline()

    might work fine as long as there were no conflicts (run time error?).
    The full name could be inferred from surrounding type declarations, so

      def foo(a: File):
          a.readline()

    could be rewritten to a.File:readline() internally.

Python
------

  - We've taken a lot from Python, but dropped plenty of things too. Some we may
    want to bring back.

  - Dynamism. We've dropped pretty much all of that so far. I'm not sure
    how much can be restored while keeping e.g. static typing. Finding
    a balance would be interesting.

  - Twisted. Async in core, and used by default for sure. Deferreds are cool,
    but see the Go section.


Go
--

  - The best bit seems to be the approach to concurrency. Copying channels/goroutines
    would be interesting. How this integrates with/replaces deferreds I'm not sure.

Rust
----

  - I'm not sure what would be taken, because it seems to have picked a lot of the
    same ideas from other languages, but aims at being a system language.

  - I think traits are an interesting approach to type classes.

Clojure
-------

  - Being data-focused is good. I'm not sure how to replicate this. Maybe pattern
    matching could work on values as well as types? Having a good type system, and
    some useful generic types with aliasing might work.

  - Persistent data structures are a good idea. Having the base types be persistent
    is probably good. Not sure how to make it easy to built other persistent types
    on top.
